docs: :memo: add architecture page (#11)
seedcase-project/seedcase-flower: docs/design/architecture.qmd

Reviewer: Does the reformatting not work again? :thinking:

| descriptor | A standalone and complete metadata structure contained in a JSON file, for example, in `datapackage.json`. |
| properties | Metadata fields (name-value pairs) of a descriptor loaded as a Python dictionary. This can be a subset of the original descriptor or the entire structure. |
| config | An object containing settings for modifying the behaviour and output of `seedcase-flower`, e.g., output format, template paths, or style. |
| section | A configuration unit that defines an output path and a list of metadata items to render at that path. |
| template | A Jinja file that defines the structure, layout, and format for rendering a metadata item. |
| style | A name for a set of templates that defines a coherent look and structure for the output, e.g., `quarto-book` or `quarto-resource-listings`. |

: Objects used throughout `seedcase-flower`.

| Action | Description |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| build/bundle | Generate structured, human-readable output from a Data Package's properties using the configuration and templates. |

> | view/show | Render a Data Package's properties as a human-readable string for terminal output. |

Reviewer: I think view is a good name.

```suggestion
| view | Output a Data Package's properties as human-readable text for terminal output, similar to the Unix `man` command. |
```

| read | Read various files, such as a Data Package descriptor (the properties) or a configuration file. |

: Actions that `seedcase-flower` can perform.

## C4 Models

This section contains the [C4 Models](https://c4model.com/) for `seedcase-flower`. The C4 Model is an established visualisation approach to describe the architecture of a software system. It breaks the system down into four levels of architectural abstraction: system context, containers, components, and code.

### System context

The system context diagram shows the users and external systems that interact with `seedcase-flower`. This includes the user types, the configuration file, and any template files used to define output structure.

The users, described in the [User types](#user-types) section, provide `seedcase-flower` with their Data Package's metadata to convert it into structured, human-readable documents.

```{mermaid}
%%| label: fig-c4-context
%%| fig-cap: "C4 system context diagram showing the anticipated users and external systems `seedcase-flower` interacts with."
flowchart LR

    subgraph "Users"

>         user_default("Default-mode user<br>[person]")

Reviewer: Will need to be updated to match above.

        user_custom("Custom-mode user<br>[person]")
    end

    config("Config<br>[file]")

>     template("Template<br>[file]")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

`template` would be part of `config` so isn't needed here.

    flower("seedcase-flower<br>[CLI]")

    config --"Customises behaviour<br>and output"--> flower
    template --"Defines output<br>structure and layout"--> flower
    Users --"Render Data Package<br>properties"--> flower

    %% Styling
    style Users fill:#FFFFFF, color:#000000
```

### Container

In C4, a [container diagram](https://c4model.com/diagrams/container) zooms in on the system boundary to show the *containers* within it, such as web applications or databases. This diagram displays the main containers of `seedcase-flower`, their responsibilities, and how they interact, including the technologies used for each.

`seedcase-flower` is primarily designed for use as a command-line interface, with its core functionality also exposed as a Python API.

```{mermaid}
%%| label: fig-c4-container
%%| fig-cap: "C4 container diagram showing the core Python package in `seedcase-flower` and the command line interface."
flowchart LR

    user("User<br>[person]")
    config("Config<br>[toml]")

>     template("Template<br>[Jinja]")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Okay, so here I should include this after all, but as the **folder** "Templates"? You suggested it should point to `config` because it is referenced there I guess. That's true, I was just thinking that it is Flower that actually loads/interacts with the templates, that's why I pointed them to Flower. 

Or are we thinking of `config` more abstractly here? As in: any settings or layouts that customise behavior, not the config file in particular.

Author: Okay, I'm happy with that too! I changed them all to reflect this.

    user --"Renders Data Package<br>properties programmatically"--> python
    user -- "Renders Data Package<br>properties via the CLI" --> cli

    %% Styling
    style seedcase-flower fill:#FFFFFF, color:#000000
```

### Component/code

In the diagram below, we zoom in on the core Python package container to show its internal components. In C4, a [component](https://c4model.com/abstractions/component) is "a grouping of related functionality encapsulated behind a well-defined interface", like a class or a module, while [code](https://c4model.com/abstractions/code) is the basic building blocks, such as classes and functions.

Because the core Python package is relatively small and simple, and because both component and code diagrams include classes, we combine the component and code levels of the C4 model into a single diagram as shown below. This diagram shows the main classes and functions within the core Python package.

```{mermaid}
%%| label: fig-c4-component
%%| fig-cap: "C4 component diagram showing the parts of the Python package and their connections."
flowchart LR

    subgraph python_package["Core Python Package"]

>         subgraph config_file["Configuration file"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        subgraph config_file["Configuration"]
```

common understanding about the implementation and to outline the design
to anyone else interested in the internal workings of the package.

## User types {#user-types}

This section describes the different users we expect and design for.
Flower has two main types of users: producers and consumers of the
metadata of a Data Package. They have different goals and needs when
using Flower or interacting with docs generated by it. While the
consumer might not directly use Flower, their experience and feedback to
the producer will influence how Flower is used and configured, which is
important for the producers to consider. So we describe both types and
how they relate to Flower and its design.

### Producers

-   **Owner**: This person or role is the one responsible and
    accountable for the Data Package's metadata. Their tasks might be to
    ensure that the metadata is accurate, complete, and up-to-date. They
    may likely act as a coordinator for the project that is structured
    as a Data Package. They may also be responsible for maintaining the
    Data Package itself, or at the least, overseeing tasks that need to

>     be done. They likely want maximal use of their Data Package, so will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    be done. They likely want more people to use their Data Package, so will
```

    they might do some small customisations to Flower's configurations
    and final output.

-   **Communication or outreach**: This person or role is responsible
    for disseminating the Data Package's metadata to a wider audience,
    such as stakeholders, collaborators, or the general public. They
    could be both producer and consumer. They may be involved in
    creating reports, presentations, or other materials that showcase
    the Data Package and its contents. They will likely use Flower to
    generate the output, potentially with some customisations to match
    the project's branding or for other stylistic purposes. They may
    have some technical expertise, but not necessarily too much. They
    will likely be quite busy with other communication tasks, so will
    likely use Flower's default configurations, style, and templates
    where possible.

### Consumers

-   **Coordinator**: This person or role is responsible for coordinating
    the use of the Data Package among a group of users, such as a
    research team or project collaborators. They will be responsible for
    ensuring that the docs generated by Flower are accessible and found

>     by the people they are overseeing or coordinating. They will also

Author: ```suggestion
    ensuring that the docs generated by Flower are accessible and easy
    to find for the people they are overseeing or coordinating. They will also
```

>     likely be giving feedback and advice back to the Owner or Manager

Author: ```suggestion
    likely be giving feedback and advice to the Owner or Manager
```

    related to how others are using the docs for the Data Package. Their

>     needs from Flower is largely to simplify their work of coordinating

Author: ```suggestion
    main use case for Flower is to simplify their work of coordinating
```
Maybe?

    the use of the Data Package, as they can direct people to the docs
    rather than having to examine the raw metadata themselves.

-   **Communication or outreach**: This is the same as the producer
    role, but from the consumer perspective. They will be invested in
    showing a nicely designed and aesthetically pleasing website or
    documentation of the Data Package to others. So they will have
    opinions and feedback on how the docs generated by Flower look and
    feel, which will influence how the producer configures and uses
    Flower.

-   **Researcher or analyst**: This person or role will be using the
    Data Package for their research or analysis work. They will be
    interested in understanding the contents of the Data Package to

>     better inform their analysis work. They will likely use the docs

Author: ```suggestion
    better inform that work. They will likely use the docs
```
